
Why? Why? Why! by Saint-Ignucious and the Holy Raymond, do we need another thing to transfer files!

Well in bit-heaven, All is End-to-End IPv6

Here on Earth, there are bad guys and a heck of a lot of NAT.

Security is Hard!

Security is hard because there is so much stuff to hook up, and it could be Windows 7 with the latest
patches, or it could be Windows 95 attached to hydraulics to shake real trains.  It all has
to get connected, but there is a lot of stuff that just isn´t upto it, like sending a four year old 
on her own to daycare across town by subway... it doesn´t feel right.

So, people put up ´Containment Areas´, ´DMZ´, some people even define firewalls as something
that must do network address translation (NAT). In that sort of a world, Transferring a file
from End to End cannot work.

So the internet is completely broken.  How do people get anything done?  The usual web 2.0 way 
is for both ends contact a third party, someone we all trust with all our data, like Google or
DropBox.   If Alice is sending stuff to Bob,  She connects to Google, sends her file, and then
Bob downloads it.  That gets around all the firewalls.

In bit-heaven, Alice would just send the file directly to Bob without anybody in the way, but
if a lot of people need to send a lot of stuff, it all goes via internet in both directions. 
that gets slow. and what if there isn´t anyone that both Alice and Bob trusts, or if there
are many people and they all need to agree on who to trust.

So what actually happens is this:

Figure.

Someone writes a program to drop a file off in a directory, then there is an ad-hoc
script to ftp it over to a server in a Bob´s company´s DMZ, and Bob has a home-made script 
to pick it up and bring it inside to his server, and then Bob has a share or something to 
put it on his laptop.   


So here´s a real-world example... an exchange of weather forecasts between Canada and the US:
And another one with the UK.
This is what actually happens:



So there are great tools to do all of these steps. but what happens in real-life is that
any one of them can break, and no-one can see the whole thing.


Are we making a new HTTP? no... we´ll leave that to Google (SPDY!)
so this isn´t about the mechanics of tranporting data, it is about 






