
Status: Pre-Draft

Source control who sees their data.
So there is a fundamental  'Routing' that users need to say 'where' it gets posted.

Is it better to:
	-  post once, listing multiple scopes?
	-  post once for each scope?


Each account has a home 'scope' which is the only place they can insert messages in.
when receiving a log message, it will be sent to the appropriate exchange on the home scope.

what are distributions/scopes?
	- does each source have a permission per scope ?
	- does each source have a disk space allocation per scope?
	- if you just set the allocation to 0, that's a permission.

	some more examples:  ec, science, internet, warning

	original ddi will be deployed in ec, but will be tied into science.gc.ca switches.
	and be able to push to ddi.science.gc.ca so all of GoC will be reachable.

	warnings: high priority queue. only very few able to post there.
		how this works is unclear.

internal servers, or internet facing?

for each layer of switching, a list of valid scopes is defined?
scope corresponds to an exchange to which a given switch posts (outputs of validation)

	- validate distribution/scope list (header?)
		internet vs. escience (comma separated list) vs. warning?
		is scope is invalid: reject.

		are there scope permissions ? some source can only send to 


-------- scope as priority mechanism -------------------
if we create a wxwarn scope, then warnings go through that scope.

-------- scope as priority mechanism -------------------


-------- scope as username of switching layer -----------------
try:
	is scope the username of each switching layer?  ssc_ddsr, ssc_ddi, ssc_dd
	each scope has an exchange scope_ssc_ddsr, scope_ssc_ddi, scope_ssc_dd.
	what about warnings?

-------- scope as username of switching layer -----------------





Scenarios:


why check scope/distribution?
	scopes:  science, internet, warnings?

	correspond to exchanges. where things get posted.
	most source cannot post 

	if we have a 'warnings' scope, then limit who can post to it.
	

transitivity
	there is an switch in EC that hands off to a switch in SSC an sr,
	that hands off to a public facing switch.

	that means each switch that connects to another one needs to pass
        the list of known scopes back.

	v01.admin.scopes.get
	issued from a client, requests the list of scopes of the server.
