
=========================
 Sarracenia in 8 Minutes
=========================

--------------------------
Status as of November 2015
--------------------------

.. Note::
   This text accompanies the A2B.dia diagram, one opens the diagram, 
   Selects view/layers, and at each *Layers* cue, change the visible layers to provide
   animation.

   Generate the slides with:
   awk ' BEGIN { s=0; }; /^Layers/ { s++; printf "dia -t png --size 1920x -e a2b_%02d.png -L %s A2B.dia \n", s, $2; }; ' script.txt | sh -x


Layers: Background


This is a quick explanation of how Sarracenia helps transferring files 
through complicated networks.  

Layers Background,People

Alice and Bob are scientific colleagues that work in different companies, and 
are far away from each other.  Alice wants to send her folder containing the genetic 
sequence of a special Frog, it's complete DNA, to Bob.  This is a large data set.

Layers Background,People,F0

There are networks between them.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network

Alice could try to send it directly to Bob, 

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,DataStraight

but it turns out:

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,Firewalls

 - there are firewalls in the way, stopping direct transfers,

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,CircuitousPath

 - Even if there is no firewall in the way transfers work, it might 
   a very slow path.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,Camel

 - Even if it takes the right path, the tools common to Alice and Bob might be slow

What Alice needs is for someone to figure out the best way to get her folder
from A to B, taking into account network layout and firewalls, and placing 
data pumps to forward the data wherever they are needed.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,tAl2Aamqpdesc,Alice2Aamqp

Then Alice only needs to talk to the data pump nearest her, that would be 
Sarracenia pump A.  Alice uses the sr_post command to 
say: "I want my frog DNA folder to go to B and F!"

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,tAl2Axfer,Al2Atransferandlog

Switch A runs an sr_sara service that acquires Alice's frog DNA folder, 
copying it onto A, and then Announces to anyone listening that 
Alice's folder is on A, and looking for a way to get to B and F.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,tAC,A2Dvectors

The Green arrows are the AMQP messages.  There is one from Alice to A advertising 
the folder.  The black line is the actual data transferred using SFTP from 
Alice's server to the pump. Once that has completed, A Tells
Alice it has finished with a (green) AMQP log message. 

Pump C is listening (or subscribed) to Pump A, and since it knows 
the way to B and F, it acquires the folder from A, and then announces to 
anyone listening that Alice's folder is on C, and trying to get to B and F.  
This process repeats.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2Evectors,D2F

and repeats.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2Evectors,D2F,E2B

The arrows are blue where HTTP is used instead of SFTP to transfer the data. Pumps 
may use different tools, but Alice does not worry about it. The forwarding
is set up once by administrators, and works for anyone's future data going 
through.

The Sarracenia pumps are operated independently as peers, with no trust 
relationships between them, and no central management.  They just agree to 
pump data on each others' behalf.  And of course, Bob does not have to 
trust Alice either. 

So the pumps forward the data to B, and Bob picks it up from there.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2Evectors,D2F,E2B,BobnotifiedB,BGetsB

But what if Pump E has a problem?

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2F,EBoom


Alice really wanted to make sure Bob got her folder, so she sent it to
B AND F. 


Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2F,EBoom,BobFromF

How does Bob decide which pump is the primary, and which is the backup?
Look, B is not even in trouble here, it just is not getting any data from
E.  With Sarracenia, Bob can listen to both B and F all the time, and get 
Alice's folder from the pump that announces it first.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2F,EBoom,BobnotifiedB,BobFromF

Because of Sarracenia's logging, Alice will know each pump that got the folder,
and will see that Bob got the folder through Pump F.  

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2F,EBoom,BobnotifiedB,BobFromF,OtherPeople

If others are interested in the folder, they subscribe to it at their nearest pump
as well.  As the folder passes through the network, they will be notified and 
they can get it too, and Alice will know they got it.  The data only has to pass 
through the long-haul, expensive networks once to get to everyone. 

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alice2Aamqp,Al2Atransferandlog,A2Dvectors,D2F,EBoom,BobnotifiedB,BobFromF,OtherPeople,keys

Of course, if Alice only wants to share with Bob, the folder can be encrypted 
with a key she only shares with Bob.


Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,

Like a Star Trek Transporter, well perhaps High School Biology is closer,
Sarracenia dissects the frog into slices and sends them across the
network in parallel.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,F1

The parallel streams and speed are programmed by admins of each pump to match pipe capacity.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,F1,F2

The people with knowledge of the nearby networks make performance decisions, and
get the best managed performance on a mix of transfers over a network with many users.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,F2,FFBob

Each slice is fingerprinted (or checksummed) to allow pumps to know what they have 
already received, so when a file in Alice's folder is changed, only that 
slice propagates through the network.  

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,FBob


Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers

Fingerprints also help if one needs data replicated over a large network of pumps,
such as for very high reliability applications.  In Sarracenia, pumps can answer to 
more than one name.  In this diagram, all the pumps answer to A as an alias.  if Alice 
posts to "A", The folder will go to all pumps.  Each pump just announces for it's 
neighbours, and propagates from pump to pump.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring

The switches just have to be connected somehow for full replication to occur.
With a single ring, the data will be crossing seven hops on average.  Dual ring
is better, but the precise arrangement does not matter. 

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring,Bisections

In general, the more links are added, the fewer hops are needed to cover all 
the pumps.  Copies happen from the first neighbour to get the data, and flows 
naturally over the fastest paths, going wherever it hasn't reached like water 
into a bucket.  Fingerprints stop the replication by identifying when data
has already been received.  

In this mesh, for example, you can see it takes three hops.

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring,Bisections,R0
Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring,Bisections,R0,R1
Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring,Bisections,R0,R1,R2
Layers Background,People,F0,Network,GISCPeers,G0Ring,Bisections,R0,R1,R2,R3


As the configuration of Sarra links is very straight-forward, and even though it 
would be a very ugly diagram, it is reasonable to set up a full mesh for total redundancy,
and guaranteed hop count of 1.


Even if you do not need to send your folder anywhere, Sarracenia can be helpful:

Layers Background,People,F0,Network,pumps,Alvin

Sarracenia notifications are more efficient and timely than polling a directory with 'ls'.  
Alvin could subscribe to Alice's posts on the same cluster, to get notified faster
and with reduced load, especially if there are many Alvins.

Layers Background,People,F0,Tech

Sarracenia is just a thin layer over mature industry standard technologies.
You do not have to use its tools to send or receive data.  A browser
or a wide variety of downloaders can be used to send, browse or download the data.

What will you be missing? you won't be notified of the arrival of your files as quickly, 
be able to use multiple streams and or download from redundant sources as easily, 
nor will Data publishers be able to easily track who received their products.

.. NOTE ::
   FIXME!

The protocol to support these patterns is pretty simple: The AMQP messages 
we send just include: slice, fingerprint, and address information. 
It is documented in two man pages.  
Sarracenia is a 'reference implementation' and we would be 
pleased if there were others.



Layers Background,Successes

So does Sarracenia actually work today?  The weather datamart has been our testbed
for two or three years.  

Layers Background,Successes,SGermans

One client in Germans, for example, has reduced their more than twenty times, 
while obtaining the same Canadian numerical weather modelling files
faster than before. 


Layers Background,Successes,SGermans,Spanam


The weather forecasting workstations for the 2015 Pan-am and Parapanam Games in Toronto 
used these tools to get a full weather centre feed at the venue much more easily 
than was possible before.

Layers Background,Successes,SGermans,Spanam,SNURP

We also currently use the two server reliability strategy on the National Unified 
RADAR Processing system at the Canadian Meteorological Centre.  We substantially
reduced the number of overtime calls for issues with that system.


Layers Background,Features

A Quick Review:

Data sources inject their tree once and see exactly where it goes. 

Consumers get their data faster, with less infrastructure and can 
modify their feeds themselves.

The same small mechanism supports a variety of very useful patterns,
for higher reliability, elegance, and performace.

Administrators see a reduced load on their data pumps from more efficient
transfers, have less setup for each source, can place pumps more easily,
and have better monitoring of transfers. 

Layers Background,People,F0,Wrapup

While these deployments were all successful, and the tools have proven utterly 
reliable, they are currently a bit complicated to set up and work is ongoing to 
make it easier to install and use.  

While good performance arises naturally from the design, work so far 
has been on correctness, with no effort has been made on optimization.

This work is being done by the Data Interchange team to solve real-world everyday 
problems, and is simpler than the systems it is replacing.  It would be nice
if someone else found it useful.  

This is not the simplest, or most obvious way to transfer files.  
It takes a little getting used to, but I hope I have shown that there 
are good reasons to make the effort to understand it.

If you have questions, go to the web site, or, by all means, drop me an email.
I will be pleased to answer them. 

Thanks for your time
